---
title: my cup of chai
year: "2019"
---

&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;I grimace at the sound of my glasses scraping against the windowsill. I wash my face with cold water and look around momentarily, before realizing the only towel we have is in the other bathroom. Sighing, I wipe my face on my shirt and pick up my glasses again, carefully, to avoid the dreaded scraping noise. A mosquito flies by; I envy its ability to remain in the bathroom for longer than 30 seconds - I can't stand the stench. I go back to my room and pause for a moment, listening to the sounds from outside the window. The steady patter of the rain relaxes me, and there is a familiarity to be found in the birdsongs from the trees.<br>
&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;I've been in India for a couple days now, and I would like to think I'd gotten used to it.<br>
&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;Every morning, my grandmother presents me with a glass of chai, a constant in the bustle of our daily activities. I knew that I could count on getting a cup of chai every couple hours here: it was offered when a guest arrived, after every meal, and at half of the storefronts in the village. Outside of that, everything was liable to change. One day, I would have to wear traditional clothes for a prayer or a dinner party, the next, I could be found in my regular t-shirt and jeans to go shopping, and maybe another day, I would remain in my pajamas all day at home. Sometimes we would eat out, other times we would simply remain inside.<br>
&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;It’s been ten years since I had been to India; this was my third time, and I don't remember a thing from the previous visits. Lucky for me, I knew my mother tongue, Malayalam–it was the first language I spoke as a child. Unfortunately, I can't say the same for my sister. She was clueless in a town where English was scarcely heard.<br>
&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;I wasn't really enthusiastic about coming to India in the first place. I would be missing out on a bunch of programs and classes, not to mention pool parties and sleepovers. The wifi was also limited, which wasn't really an encouraging factor. The worst part was that while I was riding down a bumpy dirt road lined with trash, I could only imagine how my friends felt on a glamorous boat during their cruises. Looking down at the trail of ants beside me, I felt their tiny feet march across every corner of my skin, and recalled how practically everyone else would be feeling the cool water on their skin at the beach back home. I was desperately jealous of them, and there was nothing I could do about it.<br>
&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;As we are on our way to pray at Guruvayur, a popular Hindu temple, I start to nod off. It's 4:30am, and I had groggily forced myself into a dress the color of the sunrise. My necklace feels too tight, and my chest is constricted in the stiff silk blouse. Still, I try to sleep, knowing there is a long day ahead. My mind starts to drift, and I think of my boyfriend back home. The one I’m not supposed to have. India’s conservative culture plays a large role in my life, including the restriction of my right to date in high school.<br>
&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;Suddenly, I begin to resent my own heritage. Why I couldn’t have been born normal like everyone else, I didn’t know. Being Indian meant everyone expected me to do things like get higher grades and eat rice all the time. I can recall the looks of surprise I get when people find out I’m not vegetarian, too. In my mind, the possibilities seemed endless. I wouldn’t have to hide my relationship. I wouldn’t have to work all night to keep my grades up. I could do my makeup and go on trips to the beach with my friends. All things I didn’t do largely because of my heritage.<br>
&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;Once we get to the temple, I get out of the car and mentally prepare for the wait in line. After two hours, my feet begin to ache, but we are let into the shrine’s viewing area to see a glimpse of Krishna, and are quickly ushered out to make space for more people.
After seeing Krishna, I became aware of the fact that I had perhaps just done something more special than anything any one of my peers had the opportunity to do back home. The sour feelings begin to melt away.<br>
&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;Once we return to the house, I find my little cousin and we explore the house together. I talk to him in Malayalam, for once without any fear of faults in my grammar, as he’s just learning to speak himself. I pick him up and we walk to the third story to sit in the gazebo. It begins to rain, and I keep one eye on him while I gaze out at the forest of green and the dark river beyond. We stay there for a while, as I carefully guide my thoughts to untie the knot of jealousy inside me.<br>
&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;In my introspection, I realize my breathing may not have been constricted from the unyielding silk cloth, but rather, that it was my own doing.

<center>***</center>

&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;I enjoyed the rest of my time in India: I met a flood of family members who were all eager to see me, I saw indescribably beautiful sights, ate mind-blowing food, bought glamorous dresses, and got a chance to experience my full heritage and understand my culture.<br>
&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;Leaving at the airport was unspeakably difficult; I had no idea of the next time I would see any of my extended family again. But, I was returning home having made peace with who I was and where I came from. I had learned much about both humility and pride, and was leaving with more treasures in my soul than were packed into my suitcase.

<center>***</center>

&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;India is an emerald green in my heart. She lives not in the green of envy, but in pride of the beautiful forests, and the color of my favorite traditional dress. She is wrapped in my memories of playing cards and eating sweets with my cousins and saying good morning to a peacock on our balcony. And of course she tastes of spices and milk, making my delicious cup of chai.
